A Lightsail instance’s launch script is similar to Amazon EC2 component? User Data
-A launch script is optional, and can be a shell script which will run at the time of launch, much like user data for an EC2 instance

AWS Elastic Beanstalk: Worker tiers pull jobs from SQS

Elastic beanstalk installs a deamon on each Amazon EC2 instance in the Auto Scaling group to process Amazon SQS messages in the worker environment. The daemon pulls data off the Amazon SQS queue, inserts it into the message body of an HTTP POST request and sends it to the user-configurable URL path on the local host

AWS Lambda: A trigger is compiled code that AWS lambda runs when invoked

Clusters are scalable,
Clusters are monitored using cloud watch
Clusters are scheduled across a cluster
Clusters are not Zone Specific

Lambda function event source: An AWS service which Lambda monitors for specific operations

With AWS Lambda, you pay for compute time you consume, there is no charge when your code is not running.

If you want to receive alerts when your containers, managed with Amazon ECS need to scale up or down, you can use Amazon CloudWatch. You can monitor average, and aggregate CPU and memory utilization of running tasks as grouped by Task Definition, Service or Cluster through Amazon CloudWatch.

AWS Storage
Data stored in blocks, blocks are stored on a volume and attached to a single instance.
File Store: Data is stored as separate files with a series of directories.
Data is stored in a file system.

Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)
Uses buckets (unique name)
There are multiple storage classes:
Main difference is availability.
Data stored high frequency: Standard and Reduced Redundancy Storage (RRS)

Each Bucket has set access controls (written in JSON). Permissions can be very specific using policy conditions
Access Control Lists: List of users for people outside of the AWS account (public access).

Infrequently Accessed: STANDARD-IA and ONE ZONE I-A
One ZONE-IA does not replicate data across multiple availability zones
ONE ZONE-IA is cheaper than STANDARD-IA

Intelligent Tiering
Used for unpredictable access patterns.
Automatically moves data into appropriate tier based on access pattern

Before selecting data: How critical is my data, how often will i need to access it?
How reproducible is the data?

Data Management:
allows for multiple versions of the same object to exist
Versioning is not enabled by default

AWS CloudTrail keeps track of all API calls. It stores them in S3 Buckets
Amazon Non-relational databases: No table schema required; fully supports unstructured data
Amazon Dynamo DB (Speed & Performance): Good for high volume, internet traffic. 
Amazon Dynamo DB supports both document and key store object, runs as a web service; flexible service 
Amazon Elasticache: A managed data cache service built from the open source redis and memchaced
Cache: Fast access copy of data that is being read a lot (values speed over persistence)
REDIS: complex data types: Strings, HashMaps. Lists, Sets, Sorted Sets, BitMaps replicate your cached data. 
MEMCACHE: Simplest model possible. Ability to scale out/ in adding or removing nodes as demand
on your system increases/ decreases. 
Amazon Neptune: Lots of queries and lookups. Optimized for storing data relationships, native graph database, AWS graph database engine. 

Amazon EC2 Instance Store Volumes: They are all available for all instance types. Instance store
volumes offer very high speed I/O speed. The storage cost is included in the EC2 instance price. 
Amazon does not use a file system. It is an object store with buckets and objects.

Descriptions of non-relational databases: Each non-relational database table must include a primary key; They can scale faster than relational databases.
Non-relational databases scale faster than relational databases, and can store unstructured data, which allows multiple data types to be stored within the same table without updating table fields. While relational tables are able to build relationships between different tables based on many different factors, non-relational database tables all include a primary key which is essential to performing table operations such as create, update, read, and delete. 

